AIA - Authority Information Access.  A field in a certificate.
    see rfc5280

AKI - Authority Key Identifier.  Taken from the CA certificate.

ASN.1 - Abstract Syntax Notation One

BGPSEC - A security extension to BGP.
    Addresses AS-path info.
    see draft-lepinski-bgpsec-overview-00.txt

BPKI - Business PKI

CA - Certification Authority

CMS - Cryptographic Message Syntax.
      see draft-ietf-sidr-signed-object

CP - Certificate Policy

CPS - Certification Practice Statement.
    see draft-ietf-sidr-cps-irs

CRL - Certificate Revocation List

CRLDP - CRL Distribution Points.
    A field in a certificate.

EE - End Entity

INR - Internet Number Resources.
    Number values for three protocol parameter sets:
     - IP Version 4 addresses
     - IP version 6 addresses
     - Autonomous System numbers
        
IIR - Internet Routing Registry

LIR - Local Internet Registry

NIR - National Internet Registry

NLRI - Network Layer Reachability Information

PoP - Point of Presence.  An access point to the internet.

PoP - Proof of Possession (of private key corresponding to the public key in a
    certificate).

RA - Registration Authority

rcli - Rsync CLIent.  The rsync database client.

relying party - Entity or individual that acts in reliance on certificates or
    RPKI-signed objects.

RIR - Regional Internet Registry

rpkiaur - rpki Add Update Remove.
    Program that parses rsync log file and sends msgs to the rcli DB client.

RPSL - Routing Policy Specification Language.
    A route filtering language.

ROA - Route Origination Authorization.
    The holder of a block of addresses signs this.
    It identifies the AS numbers that are authorized to originate routes to the
    addresses in question.

SBGP - An old effort at revising BGP protocol for security.
    It was not accepted by router manufacturers.

SIA - Subject Information Access.  A field in a certificate.
    see rfc5280

SKI - Subject Key Identifier.

subscriber - In a PKI, refers to an individual or organization that is a Subject
    of a certificate issued by a CA.

X.509 - A standard specifying formats for several PKI items.

